Previously on The Affair...
I don't want to have to pay
the rent by myself every month.
Let's just go get married
at city hall tonight.
I want a wedding,
at my grandparents' house.
Whitney, this marriage thing,
you don't have to do it,
you know.
But, actually, Dad, I do,
because if I don't,
then Colin has to leave
the country.
I'm desperate for a date
to my opening tomorrow.
- Dashiell Boucicault.
‐ Hi.
He likes to watch.
He could give you a gallery.
‐ I'm married.
‐Thank you
for finally telling me.
‐That's it?
‐What do you want me to say?
Doesn't matter.
You love me, too.
Oh, it does matter.
And I don't forgive you.
And how can I tell you I love
you? I don't even know you.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
You're working so calmly
in the place
where your mother died.
You were right.
She died at the jetty.
Why was your dad
obsessing about a Marine
named Benjamin Cruz?
I think he killed her.
♪ I was screaming
into the canyon ♪
♪ At the moment of my death ♪
♪ The echo I created ♪
♪ Outlasted my last breath ♪
♪ My voice it made
an avalanche ♪
♪ And buried a man
I never knew ♪
♪ And when he died,
his widowed bride ♪
♪ Met your daddy
and they made you ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the wave
that I am, and then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the wave
that I am, and then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the wave
that I am, and then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean,
sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ Sink back into the o... ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ Sink back
into the ocean ♪
♪ "Walking with a Stranger"
by Chris Staples ♪
♪ Well, it sure took forever ♪
♪ But the summer finally came ♪
♪ Felt like walking
with a stranger ♪
♪ Who didn't even know
her name ♪
♪ Pretty soon
I grew accustomed ♪
♪ To her warm and sunny way ♪
♪ Pretty soon I would forget ♪
♪ About those frigid
winter days ♪
♪ If you just stay true... ♪
Thank God you're here.
Your grandfather's been
driving me bonkers.
‐Noah.
‐Margaret.
‐Where's Helen?
‐Oh, I told you, Grandma.
She couldn't come.
She had to work.
Well, that's just disgusting.
I don't think so.
Well, of course it is.
This is your wedding.
What could be more important
than your wedding, Whitney?
I swear I brought
your mother up better than that.
I really did.
Oh, well.
She's a lost cause.
You're my only hope
for happiness now.
Ugh. Come upstairs.
I've laid out
all the bridal magazines.
Noah, take Whitney's things
to the blue room.
You're in the basement.
Oh, and see if you can
find Bruce.
He'd be thrilled to see you.
Hey. Hey, Bruce.
‐Hi.
‐H‐Hello.
Who are you?
Uh, Noah.
Noah. N‐Noah Solloway?
‐I'm your ex‐‐
‐Oh, oh. Yes, of course.
I'm so sorry.
Uh, Bruce Butler.
Margaret told me
you were coming.
The writer. Uh...
She says you've published
multiple books.
That's right, yeah.
Wow, that's impressive.
Uh, you know,
there's a great expression.
Uh...
"No one has one book
in him, but..."
Um. It's, uh...
I think it's,
"Everyone has one book in them.
Almost nobody has two."
Oh. Uh... That's not very nice.
Uh, you know,
I always wanted to be a writer.
But there never seemed
to be enough hours in the day.
Yeah...
Are you hungry?
I was craving some, uh,
some of these, uh...
‐ some of these...
‐ Here.
Bruce, let‐let me
make those for you.
No. No, no, you're our guest.
You know... No, no.
You... have‐have some coffee.
Uh, uh, I have no idea
how to use that machine.
Sure, I'll make some.
Um, are you, uh, you married?
Uh, no. Divorced.
Twice, actually.
Well, that's probably why
you have so much time to write.
I'm more of
a family man, myself.
Bruce, no.
‐ Oh...
‐Oh, Jesus.
- ‐It's okay.
- ‐
‐No...
‐I just, I just wanted to‐‐
It's‐it's all right,
it's all right. Shh, shh.
We're trying
to set boundaries for Bruce.
Some new expectations.
While you're here,
I'd appreciate it
if you could help with that.
I'm sorry.
I didn't... I didn't know.
Well, now you do.
Hi.
Ah.
What are you doing here?
‐I'm getting married.
‐What? To this fellow?
Why, Helly‐Belly,
that's fantastic.
Does this mean that
you've finally broken up
with that kid from Pennsylvania?
The‐the one that
was practically a mute?
Bruce, t‐this is Whitney.
Helen is your daughter.
This is your granddaughter.
G‐Granddaughter?
I can't do this anymore.
It's okay.
Margaret, it's okay.
Let's‐let's focus
on the wedding. Uh...
Whitney has this huge agenda
for us,
and, uh, she needs your help.
Uh, that's right, Grandma.
Um, I need to decide
on a florist.
I've narrowed it down to three,
but I'm sure
you'll have an opinion.
Um, I need to
figure out a caterer.
I wanted to find somebody
who could do vegan options.
I don't know if you know
anybody.
And, um... Oh, well,
we already got a tent.
Oh, that reminds me.
The bill for the tent came.
Margaret, I'm...
I thought I was doing
the catering,
and you and Bruce were
gonna pay for the tent.
Noah, we can't pay for this.
It's $20,000.
We don't have any money.
And whose fault
is that, Marie Antoinette?
Whitney,
I just had a splendid idea.
Why don't I call Dean
at our tennis club?
They do a marvelous brunch.
And if we do
the wedding reception
outside of peak hours,
I'm sure we can get a discount
on the cabana.
They have a waffle station
and a make‐your‐own‐omelette
bar.
Excuse me, please.
Okay, M‐Margaret, the‐the
wedding is happening here.
Okay? So, if you want
to help,
help us figure out
a way to make that happen.
Hey.
We can't afford a wedding,
can we?
No one can afford a wedding.
Not really.
We can figure it out.
No, I‐I need
to get back to reality.
I... Work has been crazy.
I had to miss three days
to be here.
Andrea already wants
to fucking kill me.
It's fine. We'll just...
we'll get married at city hall.
Come on, Whitney. You've been
talking about having a wedding
in this house since
before you were in braces.
I already found a red‐eye
that we can get on tonight.
It has seats available.
Give me six hours.
Okay? Let's at least try.
Then if you still
want to go to city hall,
then we'll go to city hall.
Come on. Have you got a pen?
Right.
What's the first thing?
‐Um...
‐Tent.
Okay, I just received
the last part of my advance,
and I can't think of a better
thing to spend it on.
‐Dad, no.
‐So that's that done.
‐Next?
‐Dad, you don't get it.
A‐A tent is no good if you don't
have things to put in it.
Backyard weddings are so
expensive because you have
to pay for every single
little thing. See?
Okay.
Let's start with plates.
Well, this house
has got to have plenty of those.
I always hoped
your mother would inherit this,
but she insists
on feeding you all
from earthenware as if
she grew up on a riverbank.
But no matter,
because now it'll go to someone
who appreciates it.
‐Thank you, Grandma.
‐This is helpful.
Thanks. What's next?
Oh, I have an appointment at
an East Hampton bridal boutique
at two,
but it's crazy expensive.
‐I think we should cancel it.
‐You don't have a dress yet?
Perfect. Come on, let's go.
Oh, Margaret,
can we borrow your car?
Only if Whitney drives.
‐Why?
‐Because the last time you drove
a car in Montauk,
you killed Scott Lockhart.
So, what do you want
to do about music?
You want dancing, right?
Honestly, I kind of wanted
a flash mob.
‐What?
‐You know, a flash mob?
It's, like, a surprise dance,
but everyone knows the steps.
How could everybody know
the steps to a surprise dance?
Because somebody teaches them
ahead of time,
and it's like a... Never mind.
Oh, look.
We have to stop
and see what they've done
to the Lobster Roll.
No, Whit‐Whitney,
we don't have time.
Yes, we do. Come on.
It'll be hilarious.
Hi, we okay here?
Not as friendly
as they used to be.
Yeah.
Hey, remember when Stacey
almost choked and Mom saved her?
What?
Yeah, you remember.
We were sitting right there,
and Trevor and Stacey were
playing that game, and then
Stacey put a marble
in her mouth.
No, it wasn't, uh, it wasn't
your mom who saved her.
It was, it was Alison.
What?
No, that's‐that's not
how I remember it at all.
No, I'm pretty sure it was her.
Stacey was choking
and Alison was right there.
So, was that the day
you met Alison?
Yeah, I think it was.
So you bonded over the fact that
Stacey almost choked to death?
Whitney, if you ever want
to talk about what happened
‐between Alison and me...
‐Yeah.
Sure. I do, actually. Go ahead.
Well, there's not... I didn't
exactly have a prepared speech.
‐But if you‐‐
‐Yeah. That's what I thought.
No, I mean, if you want
to ask questions or‐‐
- ‐Stop.
- ‐ Noah?
Luisa, hi.
‐Hey.
‐Hey, you remember Whitney,
‐my daughter?
‐Yeah, of course. Uh...
I babysat you one summer
at the Butlers'.
I remember. Nice to see you.
Yeah, we're in town planning
Whitney's wedding,
if you can believe it.
Cool. Congratulations.
Thank you.
So this is different.
Yeah. It's officially in the
hands of the new owners now.
I just came by to empty
a few things out of the office.
Ah. End of an era.
Yep.
I have to get going.
What's, uh, what's next for you?
I'm going back to New York.
‐Really?
‐Mm‐hmm.
Wow.
I can't believe you got Cole
to go to the city.
We're separated, Noah.
He and Joanie
are moving to Vermont.
This afternoon, actually,
so I have to get going.
Congratulations on
your wedding. Good luck.
I'll be right back.
No, Dad, she doesn't
want to talk to us.
Hey, Luisa.
I'm sorry
if I offended you there.
‐I had no idea.
‐It's fine.
That's terrible
about you and Cole.
Well, the writing
was on the wall, wasn't it?
Look, I was wondering, have you
any idea when they're leaving?
‐Why?
‐'Cause I want to see Joanie.
You can't just waltz
in and out of her life
‐when it's convenient.
‐I know that. I know that.
I raised her as my own for
two years. I care about her.
Noah, I don't feel like getting
‐in the middle of this.
‐No, I understand.
If you could just tell me
when they're leaving,
then I can swing by, and if Cole
doesn't want me to see her,
that's fine, I just,
I don't want her to think
I just disappeared.
They're leaving at five.
Thanks.
I'm sorry about
how it turned out here, and...
I hope there are
good things ahead.
Noah, I babysat your kids.
My mother worked at your house.
Don't pretend we're friends.
‐Hey, can I get a menu, please?
‐You order on that.
♪ And death grabbed him
so quiet ♪
♪ It didn't even make a sound ♪
♪ As far as I could see
were dead leaves... ♪
Hey, just‐just pull over
right here, will you?
‐ What, here?
‐Yeah. Just for a second.
♪ Pretty soon I grow a cold ♪
♪ And hollow feeling
in my heart ♪
♪ Pretty soon me
and my sunny day ♪
♪ Will have to part ♪
♪ If you just... ♪
Hey... you think these
would look good in a bouquet?
Uh, you know th...
that's poison ivy, right?
‐This is not poison ivy.
‐Not the stuff you got in your hand, man.
The three‐leafed plants that are
all around where you were
‐secret gardening.
‐W... N...
Poison ivy doesn't grow
in the winter.
Oh, yeah.
It definitely does.
Oh, fuck.
Yay.
‐Are you Mr. Solloway?
‐Yeah. Hi.
Yeah, they told me at the front
that Whitney might be back here.
‐She sure is. Welcome.
‐Thank you.
‐ Hi, Dad.
‐Hey, Whit. How's it going?
Good.
Oh, thanks.
It is so cute that you're here.
We almost never see dads
in the shop.
- ‐What do you do?
- ‐ He's a writer.
Ooh. Anything I'd know?
- ‐I doubt it.
- ‐ He's being very
modest. He has
a movie coming out
‐starring Sasha Mann.
‐Sasha Mann?
I fucking love Sasha Mann, wow.
Hey, Hannah,
could you come back here
and give me a hand
with these clamps?
Coming.
Okay...
Well?
What do you think?
Oh, Whit.
You're beautiful.
Thanks, Dad.
You guys are gonna make
the cutest father‐daughter ever.
Wow. Whitney, it's 19,
but I'll knock it down to 17
because it's...
it's just so...
it's perfect.
Uh, wh... That's, uh...
17, as in thousand?
Mm, sometimes dads
just need a little convincing.
Do you mind pulling
a few less expensive
options?
Uh, Lizzie! Can you
come here a second?
Oh... sweetheart.
You are front‐cover
Martha‐Stewart gorgeous.
- ‐Isn't it perfect?
- ‐ Mm‐hm.
Whitney thinks so, too.
Actually, I was wondering if you
could pull some cheaper options?
Ah, she is such a doll.
Is she your first
to get married?
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. So, like, what price range
were you thinking?
Uh... Wh...
I‐I don't know, I‐I‐‐
He's a big screenwriter.
He works with Sasha Mann.
Really?
Let me ask you something,
Mr. Hollywood.
When will there ever be
a more important time
to splurge than for your
eldest daughter's wedding?
She loves this dress.
Uh... Look, maybe...
maybe I can, um...
‐ Maybe...
‐ Don't, Dad.
It's okay. It's okay.
I'm gonna change.
I'm sorry, what,
what's happening here?
I didn't know the dresses
were this expensive. I...
I haven't earned
that kind of money yet.
Well, then why did you waste
our time with this appointment?
It was my idea, Hannah,
and it was a big mistake.
What kind of psycho
spends $17,000 on a dress?
Do you know how many
clean water wells
you could build in Africa
with that money?
‐No. Do you?
‐I bet it's a lot, you cunt.
Nice work, Dad.
Dad... what's up
with the itching?
It's fucking...
‐poison ivy.
‐What?
Yeah, I tried to pick you
some wildflowers.
Thought you might like them.
What?
I know what you're trying to do.
And I appreciate it.
What am I trying to do?
You're trying to make amends.
Oh, look, a daytime moon.
Your mom always used to say
they were good luck.
♪ I wandered out
in the woods for years ♪
♪ While you just stayed
in your room ♪
♪ I saw the crescent ♪
♪ You saw the whole
of the moon ♪
‐♪ Doo‐doo‐nee‐nee ♪
‐
♪ The whole of... ♪
Who's that?
‐Who sings that?
‐I don't know.
Colin's always playing it,
it stuck in my head.
It was the Waterboys.
That's my generation.
Yeah, I think they're Irish.
I don't know, Colin's obsessed.
‐Mmm, boy's got good taste.
‐
Hey, I got an idea, but,
uh, you may hate it.
Your mom had a really beautiful
wedding dress.
And I don't know where it is
now, but your grandmother,
she'd probably have it.
We know she's a hoarder.
Okay. It was
a terrible idea.
No.
I love it.
‐How'd it go?
‐Hey, Margaret, do you know
where Helen's wedding dress is?
She looked like a vagabond whore
in that dress. Why?
Okay,
let's just check the attic.
Sorry, I need a minute.
What's wrong?
You hate it?
- ‐You hate it, right?
- ‐ No.
Don't worry, don't worry.
We'll get another one.
It's not the dress.
I love the dress.
What is it?
This wedding is gonna be
‐a fucking disaster.
‐What?
No, it's not. Come on,
we're pulling it together.
We got a tent,
we got the plates,
now we got a dress.
That's not what I mean.
Then what is it?
I cheated on Colin.
Okay.
Okay? That's what
you have to say to me?
‐No, no.
‐God, why am I not surprised?
When did this happen? Recently?
Yeah.
After you got engaged?
And I have to tell him, right?
Uh... uh, not necessarily.
I mean... did you want
to be with this other guy?
No. God, no.
Well, is there any other way
that Colin might find out?
I mean, is it someone
who's around a lot, do you have
‐friends in common?
‐No. Why?
Because, in that case,
telling Colin might just
hurt him unnecessarily.
And end your relationship.
I mean, unless...
‐What?
‐Well, unless
that's what you were
trying to do.
‐
‐I...
I don't know.
Uh... maybe.
Whitney?
Do you want to marry Colin?
If you're asking if he's
the only person I'll ever love,
I... I have no
fucking idea.
How am I supposed to know that?
Look, I don't think
anybody knows that.
Yes, they do.
Some people do.
‐Colin does.
‐Now, you don't know that.
You're not in his head.
For all you know, he's...
he's having major doubts, too.
‐Wow.
‐No... not about you,
about marriage.
When I got married,
I thought that if you,
if you, if you chose
the right person,
then you'd be happy forever,
and if you were unhappy,
then they were the wrong person.
But that's just not
how it works.
‐It's not?
‐No. No.
Marriage is...
it's not magic, it's,
it's just a decision
that you have to make.
And keep on making,
over and over, to stay.
Whitney,
deciding you're not ready
doesn't mean
you're a bad person.
It means you know yourself
much better than I knew
when I was your age.
No, I'm not hurting Colin.
I'm not doing it.
‐He's my best friend.
‐He'll be okay.
He, he... he'll survive.
You hurt Mom so badly.
Yeah, but that was...
that was different.
We had four kids.
I don't want to ever hurt anyone
the way you hurt her.
Right.
Why did you do it?
If marriage is a choice,
if you can decide to stay,
why did you go?
I don't know how to answer that.
Was it Alison?
Did you just love her
more than you loved us?
No.
What was it, then?
I don't know.
See, the thing
that I don't get is,
you were a good dad.
And Mom was a great mom,
and‐and we were happy.
Or at least I thought we were.
And then...
I guess I just worry that,
if that wasn't real
and if that wasn't good,
then... then maybe nothing is.
Whitney, look, I fucked up.
I...
I was thinking about myself,
and I fucked up.
Which is why I want you
to give yourself the time
to make the right decision.
I love you, Whit.
I just want you to be happy.
I love you, too.
Come on.
I got to change
out of this dress.
Oh, fuck.
Hello?
Noah, hi. This is
Petra Ranes from Vanity Fair.
Oh, hi, Petra.
It's been a while.
‐How are you?
‐I'm good.
And the piece is really
coming together.
‐Great.
‐I'm just doing a last
little bit of fact‐checking,
if you have a second.
‐Sure.
‐Great.
So, do you happen to know
a woman named Eden Bishop?
Uh... no, I don't think so.
That's her married name.
Maybe you know her
as Ellery? Eden Ellery?
Oh, yeah, yeah, she was,
uh, she was my publicist
on the book tour for Descent.
That's what she said, too.
Okay?
Did you two have a relationship?
Beyond the professional?
Me and Eden?
She claims you pressured her
into sleeping with you
on the book tour.
Does that match
your recollection?
Sorry, wh‐what did you say?
The reception here is terrible.
Eden claims you coerced her
into having sex
while on the book tour together.
I'm asking if you remember
something like that happening
between you and her
during that time.
No. Absolutely not.
Are you sure?
This is fucking shit!
What? No!
So that's not your memory?
‐No!
‐Okay. That's it, then.
I just needed a comment.
Thanks for your time.
What...?
Oh, fuck.
Yes?
Hi, I'm looking
for Benjamin Cruz.
I'm Ben Cruz.
Can I help you?
I just wanted to ask
about your clinic.
I... I need help.
I think I have PTSD.
Ah.
What's your name?
Gabrielle.
Very nice to meet you.
Come on inside.
Danny, Isla, meet Gabrielle.
She's here to learn
about our community.
‐Hey there.
‐Hey.
Hi.
I thought I was the only one
who read real books anymore.
How about I give you a tour?
I believe in the healing power
of fresh air
and tilling the land.
Everything here has been
designed to be self‐sustaining.
My patients get free lodging
in return for their time
in the garden.
So, a‐are you
a veteran, Gabrielle?
Um, no, I'm not.
How did you find us, then?
Recommendation.
I only ask because we
mostly service ex‐military.
When I was a young vet,
I started
my post‐service career
at the VA,
during what I thought
was a really exciting time
for PTSD therapy.
Newer, integrative
psychotherapeutic approaches
like exposure therapy, EMDR.
They all seemed
to be taking root
in the mainstream community,
but then, of course,
they were obliterated
as soon as the government
deregulated
psychopharmaceutical drugs.
If vets want
alternative therapies,
they have to seek them
under the table,
pay out of pocket,
get treatments in secret.
If the VA finds out,
people lose their health care.
Anyway,
that's why I have to be
extra careful
when people knock on my door.
Well, you weren't that careful.
You kind of just let me in.
True.
But you have an honest face.
We grow all our own food.
There's something so
satisfying about putting
your hands in the dirt,
turning the soil,
caring for the space,
and then watch it
as it bears fruit.
Here,
the land that we've
taken care of
then turns around
and cares for us.
I firmly believe,
if we can remember
how to care for a garden,
we can remember
how to care for each other.
Thank you.
Let's head back inside.
Get to know each other
a bit better.
So...
Gabrielle.
That's a beautiful name,
by the way.
Thank you.
Is it a family name?
Yes.
So tell me,
how can I help you?
I think I suffer from PTSD.
Okay.
How does that manifest?
I can't connect with people.
I think I'm incapable of love.
Well, sometimes such feelings
are connected
to a significant loss or trauma
at an early age.
Does that resonate with you?
No.
Hmm.
Are you familiar with EMDR?
No.
It's an old form of therapy.
Nobody really understands
why it works or how,
but it does.
There's something
almost magical about it.
Mm. You don't believe in magic?
No.
Maybe that's why
you have such...
trouble with love.
Would you like to try EMDR?
J‐Just to see if we can get
a little closer
to understanding why you came.
Sure. Why not?
Excellent.
I record all my sessions.
Do you mind?
And this is just
our standard release form.
It's on paper.
I know. What can I say?
I am nostalgic
for the analog world.
I suspect you are, too.
Well, take a moment,
read it through.
What's the date?
Oh, don't worry about that.
I just need your signature.
Okay. Thank you.
So...
the way EMDR works.
We pick one specific
traumatic event
and then we basically
rewrite the script
so it doesn't trigger
the same debilitating response.
Does that make sense?
Good.
We can start
on any memory, really.
Is there a moment, a...
a night where you remember this,
as you say, "inability to love"
really manifesting itself,
impeding your life in some way?
I...
I had a fight
with my boyfriend recently.
Excellent.
That is the perfect thing
to unpack with this therapy.
Let's start there.
Can you please, um,
move your chair
to face me.
Good.
No, see, you need to be
a little closer.
There you go.
Okay, to begin,
just follow my fingers
with your eyes.
‐Th‐That makes me dizzy.
‐Okay.
Let's switch to something else.
Your palms up.
There you go.
Close your eyes
and take a deep breath.
Now think back
to the night of the fight.
What do you notice?
Where are you?
I'm in my apartment.
‐Where is that?
‐Montauk.
How about your boyfriend,
is he there?
He's on his way.
How do you feel?
Scared.
Good. Go with that.
Same as before.
Tell me...
what do you notice?
My apartment is warm, cozy.
There's a fire in the fireplace.
My daughter's drawings
are on the refrigerator.
It's raining outside.
Pouring, actually.
There's a storm, a... a bad one.
The windows are rattling.
Good. Go with that.
Now what do you see happening?
My boyfriend arrives.
He's soaking wet.
He dries himself by the fire.
How's he dressed?
Jeans and a military jacket.
He's a veteran.
Good.
Close your eyes.
Notice what he says
and go with that.
‐He's angry.
‐Why is he angry?
Because he's married,
and I want him
to leave his wife.
We have a fight.
I tell him that if he doesn't
leave her, I will kill myself.
Keep going.
He tells me that
I'm ugly and stupid
and that nobody
will ever love me,
and that the best I could hope
for is to be someone's slut.
Okay. That's enough.
EMDR doesn't work
if you're lying.
I never said those things.
I respected your mother greatly.
I would never have
spoken that way to her.
Hello, Joanie.
Hello, Ben.
I'm so glad
you are finally here.
Why don't we start again
with the same question?
How can I help you?
Did you kill my mother?
Yes.
I did.
I can only imagine
what you think of me right now.
It's all so new for you.
The truth is, I've been
thinking about you for years.
I've tried to imagine where
you've been living your life
and‐and how.
I've awaited our reunion
with great anticipation.
Is there anything else
you want to ask me?
Anything at all?
Go back behind your desk.
I need a barrier between us.
Of course.
I‐I want to be held
accountable, Joanie.
I've always known
I would eventually
have to answer for what I did.
I welcome the opportunity.
I know this might be hard
for you to believe,
but I think of your mother
every day.
Every minute, in fact.
She is constantly with me,
and...
I hate myself for what I did.
Okay. So why did you do it?
I had a psychotic break.
What?
When I met your mother...
the doctors at the VA
had me on a lot of drugs.
Antidepressants, MDMA,
antipsychotics.
I was losing my mind.
I couldn't sleep.
Uh, I‐I‐I was paranoid.
I started hearing voices.
I didn't tell anyone,
of course, because...
I, I was afraid
they'd lock me up for good.
That night...
I became a monster,
uh, completely out of control.
What did you do to her?
Well, we had an argument
in her apartment,
as you guessed.
About what?
The fact that I was married.
So I was right.
Yes.
But she told me to leave.
It was me
who was begging to stay.
Why?
Have you ever met someone
who‐who looked at you,
all of you,
even the savage parts,
and they didn't flinch?
No.
I thought she was gonna
be the one to bring me back,
restore me to the man I was
before I went to war.
That night
we tried to make love...
...and...
I found that I couldn't.
For years after Afghanistan,
I had thought
the problem was my wife.
But then, all of a sudden,
it was clear.
The problem had been me
all along.
My fate was sealed.
I would never be the man
I was before the war.
And I was never going
to be enough for Alison
or any woman.
So you killed her?
I never felt such rage.
And because Alison
was in front of me,
I‐I directed it at her.
She said she was leaving.
She ran to the door.
And I didn't want her to go,
so I grabbed her by the arm
to try to bring her back,
and I lost my grip,
and she fell, hard,
against the bookshelf.
Before I could reach her,
this statue, a heavy statue,
it fell on her head.
And she was gone.
So... it was an accident?
Yes, of course.
I never wanted
to hurt your mother.
I have... I have tried...
to find a way to make
what I did bearable.
I have dedicated
the last 30 years of my life
creating this place:
a safe haven for veterans.
So nobody again
will ever lose control
the way I did.
Hurt someone the way
I hurt your mother.
You didn't just hurt her.
You killed her.
Yes, and I'm sorry, Joanie.
If you're so sorry, then why
didn't you turn yourself in?
I‐I don't know what good
it would have done.
I‐I‐I could help more people...
make more amends by being
of service to these men,
rather than waste
the rest of my life
rotting away in some cell.
Don't you think you should have
let a jury make that call?
Y‐You know who I think
should make that call?
You.
Me?
I promised myself
a long time ago, Joanie,
that when you found me‐‐
and I knew it was a "when,"
not an "if"‐‐
that I would submit
to whatever accountability
you demanded,
and I‐I‐I would not resist.
So...
if you want to call
the police right now,
I'll give you my phone.
If you want to...
you want to kill me...
...I'll give you my gun.
I am completely in your hands.
If I were going to kill you,
I wouldn't use a gun.
It's too quick.
Okay.
How would you do it?
I'd like to cut off your dick
and let you bleed out
like a pig until you die.
Well... that's an option, too.
I have to go.
I need to think.
Okay, but, Joanie,
you know where to find me now.
And I'm not gonna run.
I'll be right here
whenever you decide.
I have to go.
So, what are you gonna do?
I don't know.
How about calling the police?
I guess I should?
This man murdered your mother
and then sat there and gave you
a detailed description
of how he did it.
That's a special kind
of psychopath.
He's a lot of things,
but I‐I don't think
he's a psychopath.
What?
He seemed sorry.
Truly sorry.
He spent his entire life
trying to make amends.
Uh, Joanie, most murderers
are sorry for what they did.
They still have to go to prison.
He said I could kill him
if I liked.
I think that would be a mistake.
I wasn't being serious.
‐Yes, you were.
‐No, I wasn't.
I think you were.
‐EJ.
‐Joanie, listen to me.
This problem is
above your pay grade.
There are people who specialize
in crime and punishment
for a living.
That's why they're called
the authorities.
How about we let them
decide what to do
before we take vengeance
into our own hands.
Ben may be sorry, but he was
clearheaded enough at the time
to use your mother's history
of mental illness against her
and make everyone believe
she drowned herself.
That's right.
She drowned.
They found water in her lungs.
Benjamin Cruz?
Can I help you?
I'm Detective Clark,
this is Detective Woods.
We'd like to ask you
a few questions
pertaining to the death
of Alison Bailey.
May we come in?
I've made my decision.
Where did you find her?
She's one of the patients
from my facility.
She went AWOL last night...
and we've been worried sick.
What?
This is her signature,
committing herself
‐to psychiatric care.
‐What?
And this is my case study
for Joanie Lockhart.
She was admitted
three weeks ago.
That's not true.
None of this is true.
Joanie suffers from severe
depression and PTSD.
Her mother tragically
committed suicide
when she was seven years old.
And lately she's been
experiencing homicidal
fantasies and delusions.
‐This is all horseshit.
‐We have been exploring
some of them in a safe,
therapeutic space,
but, um, yesterday
she had a turn for the worse
and she threatened my life.
I'd like to cut off your dick
and let you bleed out
like a pig until you die.
That is not what I said.
That isn't your voice
on the recording?
Of course it is, but it was
meant as a hypothetical,
like... if I were to kill him.
He knew my mother. He isn't just
a random doctor I came to see.
He was dating her when she died.
He told me that he set up
this whole clinic
because he felt like such a shit
for what he did 30 years ago.
Officers,
I have nothing to hide.
I was cleared of any wrongdoing
in Alison Bailey's death
years ago.
The police ruled it
as a suicide.
Joanie just can't accept it.
She needs someone to blame.
She herself has made
a series of suicide attempts,
as you can see referenced
on pages five and six.
Ms. Lockhart,
what are you doing?
Where is it, Ben?
‐Where's your fucking gun?
‐There's no gun.
He said I could kill him with it
if I wanted to.
I don't have a gun, Joanie.
I run a therapeutic center
for PTSD recovery.
A gun would be
a very dangerous thing
to have on these premises,
wouldn't it?
Ms. Lockhart,
is it true what he's saying?
Are you a patient
at this facility?
- ‐No, of course not.
- ‐ All right, but...
this is your signature
on this form?
I wasn't paying attention
to what I was signing.
So you didn't read
what the form said?
You aren't listening to me.
I'm telling the truth.
I'm not the crazy one.
‐He is.
‐Okay, well, why would you sign
something you didn't read,
ma'am?
Because I was too busy
thinking about
how I was gonna kill him.
Mr. Cruz, do you want us
to remove Ms. Lockhart
from the property?
That won't be necessary.
Are you sure, sir?
More than anything, right now,
she needs my support.
Sorry to have wasted
your time, Officers.
Okay.
I'm gonna fucking kill you.
You can't touch me now, Joanie.
Police are watching you now.
You'll go to prison
for the rest of your life.
Your kids will grow up
without a mother.
That's not what you want, is it?
What do you know about my kids?
I meant what I said.
I thought about you over the
years, wondered how you were.
Were you watching me?
I looked you up online.
When did you know it was me?
When you took off
your sunglasses.
Why didn't you say
something then?
What was the point
of this whole exercise?
My mother was still breathing
when her body
went into the water.
She didn't die in our apartment
like you said she did.
She had water in her lungs.
She fucking drowned.
Calm down.
Can I get you something?
A drink?
You wanted me
to call the police.
So you could show them
my signature
and play them the tape
and make me seem like a nutjob.
The one person left alive
who knows what you did.
You killed her, and then you
dumped her body in the water.
You made it look like a suicide.
You used her history
and you set her up just like you
set me up, didn't you?
Yes.
Why?
I didn't want to go to prison.
Oh, you're a killer.
You belong in prison.
Oh, thou shall not kill.
Well... except sometimes.
I killed people in Afghanistan,
plenty of them.
Some of them innocent civilians.
It wasn't a crime there.
Why should it be a crime here?
You took my mother from me.
I was a child.
You took her.
You know,
you are just so much like her.
When you showed up at my door,
you seemed so...
strong, so tough.
I should have known
it was a mask.
Just like hers.
You're just as sad
and as frightened as she was.
Harder.
Oh.
I understand
why you came here now.
It wasn't for Alison at all.
You just want someone
to put you out of your pain.
I'm not gonna do you that favor.
I'm sorry for your pain, Joanie.
I really am.
But if I go away,
what happens to these patients?
They need me here.
You are so full of shit,
and you know it.
I've paid for my sins.
I can live with myself.
You're the one, apparently,
who cannot.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org